come on admit it
you've always wanted to be like indiana
jones
traveling to mysterious sites having
incredible adventures
and discovering amazing stuff in ancient
tombs and temples
yeah we've all been there so
let's check out these recent
archaeological findings
that stupefied scientists all over the
world
starting with number one fifteen
hundred-year-old jewelry trove
in denmark
in the spring of 2017 terese refsgar
an amateur archaeologist from denmark
made an astonishing discovery on an
island in horses fjord she was searching
for evidence of viking settlements on
the island
when she stumbled across a real treasure
cache
over 32 items of exquisite jewelry
dating back to
500 ce there were beads pendants
a needle pearls and gold pieces used as
currency back in the day
scientists say this is amazing because
it speaks to connections
between the pre-viking settlers and the
roman empire
moreover some of the patterns are
absolutely unique
and have never been seen before hey
what could be better than finding
ancient gold
well apparently finding ancient gold
that could surprise the
all-knowing scientists
number two lonely stone hut in greenland
you might ask what's so special about a
stone hut
but this one is really something
according to danish
archaeologist christian coke madsen
the hutt and his team found near the
cermic kangalit glacier in southern
greenland
shouldn't even be there they said they
had been in the area before
and not found anything of interest
however when they dug it up a little bit
they uncovered a single dwelling it's
very small
about five feet by six and a half feet
and it's open to the wind from
every side scientists can't explain why
it's even there
the hut stands alone literally in the
middle of nowhere
and people couldn't possibly have lived
there all year around
because it was simply too cold have any
ideas to help the archaeologists
share them in the comments i'm sure
together we'll find out the truth
number three ancient chinese sword used
as a kitchen knife
now that's some story a farmer from
china was digging up his garden
when he found a really old rusty sword
what would you do if you were him i'd
probably give it to experts for
evaluation
well our friend wasn't interested in
such stuff so
he took the blade for himself cleaned
and sharpened it
and used it as a kitchen knife it took
him five years to realize
something was off about his utensil i
don't know
maybe the dragon engraving on it he
finally gave it to scientists
and they were amazed to see that it was
actually a ching
dynasty sword they'll have some trouble
dating it more accurately because of all
the sharpening
but it surely has a lot of historical
value
ever wanted to use an ancient artifact
to cut up some cucumbers
give me a like if you have
number four ancient tools found in texas
to understand the significance of this
discovery consider this
in school they teach us that humans
first arrived in the americas
about 13 000 years ago well the tools
found by a team of texas state
archaeologists
date back sixteen thousand years which
is three thousand years older
yeah i know you can count it stupefies
me completely
dr thomas williams from gold school of
archaeological research
says that humans were thought to have
come to north america
when enough ice melted there to allow
them to walk across the bering strait
yeah it was kind of dry back then three
thousand years before that though
this passage just didn't exist there
were only glaciers all around
sheer ice walls up to three miles tall
with
no food or water for humans to live on
so
how did they end up in central texas
then that
remains a mystery
number five roman sarcophagus used as a
flower pot
this one is even crazier than the
kitchen sword story
a flower pod in oxfordshire england
turned out to be an ancient roman
sarcophagus
worth more than 364 thousand dollars
well at least it stood in a place of
significance blenheim palace where the
sarcophagus was eventually identified
was sir winston churchill's birthplace
before that it was a residence of the
fifth duke of marlborough
who bought the object in the 19th
century as a garden ornament
ironically it was only noticed when an
antiques expert came to the property
to evaluate something else entirely and
his gaze
accidentally fell on the object now of
course
the sarcophagus has been relocated to
much more suitable conditions
where it will hopefully be preserved for
centuries to come
number six fourteen thousand year old
bread
found in jordan yeah you heard that
right
this bread is over fourteen thousand
years old in fact the archaeologists who
found it
claim it's actually fourteen thousand
four hundred
must be some tough crust on that one
anyway
there's an even more curious detail
about this ancient treat
scientists say it predates the age of
agriculture by
4 000 years so
people were hunters back then but they
didn't sow
how come they baked bread tobias richter
head of the excavation party in jordan
explains that these guys lived in a
transitional period
between hunting and agriculture they
gathered wild cereals like barley
einkorn and oats
processed them and made food out of them
later this led to the practice of
cultivating the land
small steps make a big deal here's a
toast
to some really old bread
number seven eight-year-old girl finds
an ancient
sword in the lake it sounds almost like
the story about the lady of the lake
a little girl by the name of saga
vanachak was playing in a lake in sweden
when she stepped on something hard she
felt curious and
pulled the object out of the water only
to find it wasn't a stick
like she initially thought but a very
real sword
i wonder if she just played it to the
hilt
oh sorry the hilt is the handle on the
sword now it's funny
anyway swedish scientists estimate that
the weapon is at least one thousand
years old
so it was forged several centuries
before the viking era
mikhail nordstrom from the yonkoping's
lawns museum
says they were able to collect a brooch
in the same area that was from around
the same time
he says the place has been thought to be
a burial site
but this finding turned the theory
upside down
researchers now think it was some kind
of sacrificial ground
because there were no signs of burial
mounds around the place whatsoever
looks like the truth is yet to be
uncovered
number eight ceremonial dagger used as a
door stop
[Music]
alright let me take a stab at this one
here's another unlikely story of an
ancient relic
treated like it was made for the mass
market a landowner from norfolk england
dug up a rather large piece of metal in
his yard
once again not realizing it could be of
some importance
some he found a use for it in his house
he needed a doorstop and now he had one
the object was used like this for more
than a decade until the man finally had
doubts as to its origins
and contacted scientists the result of
the analysis
amazed the researchers it was a
ceremonial dagger
or dirk from the bronze age that is from
about 3 500 years ago
the blade was deliberately bent at the
time of its making
showing that it was never intended to be
used as a weapon
it was the third bronze age dirk found
in europe
some doorstop
number nine thor's hammer in germany
no not that thor's hammer what i'm
talking about here is an
amulet in the form of a warhammer
wielded by the norse thunder god
no not omelet amulet
many amulets like this were found in
different parts of scandinavia
but this one is different like i would
tell you it wasn't
this hammer was part of a greater
treasure found by amateur archaeologist
renee shone and his 13 year old
apprentice
the duo was scouting rugen a german
island in the baltic sea
when they came upon some silver pieces
with the help of professional
archaeologists
they uncovered many more objects of
value including that
thor's hammer i told you about so what's
unusual about it
well the scientists discovered that the
treasure actually belonged
to the most famous viking lord king
harald bluetooth
he was known for his wealth and power
among the vikings
bluetooth united all the danish tribes
and it was under his rule that the danes
gained victory over the germans and
norwegians
and now if you're wondering whether a
similarly famous
wireless technology was named after him
the answer is a definite yes
now imagine the emotions the lucky
archaeologists had when they
unearthed such a significant treasure ah
i wish i'd found some too hey you want
to be like thor
well then just smack your thumb with
your hammer and you
certainly can really be thor
well bright fighters uh i mean bright
ciders
tell me have you ever found anything
unusual in your backyard
or maybe in your attic share your
surprising discoveries with everyone
down in the comments
but before you run off to search for
ancient relics around your house
make sure you give this video a like
share it with your adventurous friends
and don't forget to hit the subscribe
button stay on the bright side
you